=encoding UTF8

=head1 NAME

lsb_release - print distribution-specific information (minimal
implementation).

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<lsb_release> I<[options]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a bare-bones version of the B<lsb_release> command,
implemented as a tiny POSIX shell script (less than 100 lines of
commented code).

Instead of using LSB packages, this version of B<lsb_release> uses the
information in F</etc/os-release> and F</usr/lib/os-release>.
Nevertheless, the output of this version is byte-for-byte compatible
with the Python-based version provided by Debian and its derivatives.

Using this implementation it is possible to avoid installing Python in a
base OS image while still retaining compatibility with older scripts that
expect B<lsb_release> to exist.

=head1 OPTIONS

The program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options
starting with two dashes (C<-->).  A summary of options are included below.

=over 4

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Show a help message with a list of options and exit.

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Show LSB modules this system supports.

=item B<-i>, B<--id>

Show distributor ID.

=item B<-d>, B<--description>

Show description of this distribution.

=item B<-r>, B<--release>

Show release number of this distribution.

=item B<-c>, B<--codename>

Show code name of this distribution.

=item B<-a>, B<--all>

Show all of the above information.

=item B<-s>, B<--short>

Show requested information in short format.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F</usr/lib/os-release>

Distribution-provided file with operating system identification data.

=item F</etc/os-release>

Machine-specific file with operating system identification data.
If present, F</etc/os-release> is read instead of F</usr/lib/os-release>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<os-release(5)>

=head1 AUTHOR

Gioele Barabucci L<https://gioele.io>

=head1 LICENSE

This implementation of B<lsb_release> is free software released under
the terms of the ISC license.
